---
typora-root-url: ../
layout:     post
title:      DS-ch15 Memory Management and B-Trees
date:       '2020-08-16T02:36'
subtitle:   
keywords:   Data Structure
author:     zwt
catalog:    false
tags:
    - Data Structure
---

# 15.5 Exercises

### Reinforcement

**R-15.1** Julia just bought a new computer that uses 64-bit integers to address memory cells. Argue why Julia will never in her life be able to upgrade the main memory of her computer so that it is the maximum-size possible, assuming that you have to have distinct atoms to represent different bits.

**R-15.2** Consider an initially empty memory cache consisting of four pages. How many page misses does the LRU algorithm incur on the following page request sequence: (2,3,4,1,2,5,1,3,5,4,1,2,3)?

**R-15.3** Consider an initially empty memory cache consisting of four pages. How many page misses does the FIFO algorithm incur on the following page request sequence: (2,3,4,1,2,5,1,3,5,4,1,2,3)?

**R-15.4** Consider an initially empty memory cache consisting of four pages. What is the maximum number of page misses that the random algorithm incurs on the following page request sequence: (2,3,4,1,2,5,1,3,5,4,1,2,3)? Show all of the random choices the algorithm made in this case.

**R-15.5** Describe, in detail, algorithms for adding an item to, or deleting an item from, an $(a,b)$ tree.

**R-15.6** Suppose *T* is a multiway tree in which each internal node has at least five and at most eight children. For what values of *a* and *b* is $T$ a valid $(a,b)$ tree?

**R-15.7** For what values of d is the tree $T$ of the previous exercise an order-*d* B-tree?

**R-15.8** Draw the result of inserting, into an initially empty order-7 B-tree, entries with keys (4,40,23,50,11,34,62,78,66,22,90,59,25,72,64,77,39,12), in this order.  <!--more-->

### Creativity

**C-15.9** Describe an efficient external-memory algorithm for removing all the duplicate entries in an array list of size *n*.

**C-15.10** Describe an external-memory data structure to implement the stack ADT so that the total number of disk transfers needed to process a sequence of *k* push and pop operations is $O(k/B)$.

**C-15.11** Describe an external-memory data structure to implement the queue ADT so that the total number of disk transfers needed to process a sequence of *k* enqueue and dequeue operations is $O(k/B)$.

**C-15.12** Describe an external-memory version of the `PositionalList` ADT (Section 7.3), with block size *B*, such that an iteration of a list of length n is completed using $O(n/B)$ transfers in the worst case, and all other methods of the ADT require only $O(1)$ transfers.  

**C-15.13** Change the rules that define red-black trees so that each red-black tree *T* has a corresponding $(4,8)$ tree, and vice versa.

**C-15.14** Describe a modified version of the B-tree insertion algorithm so that each time we create an overflow because of a split of a node *w*, we redistribute keys among all of *w*’s siblings, so that each sibling holds roughly the same number of keys (possibly cascading the split up to the parent of *w*). What is the minimum fraction of each block that will always be filled using this scheme?

**C-15.15** Another possible external-memory map implementation is to use a skip list, but to collect consecutive groups of $O(B)$ nodes, in individual blocks, on any level in the skip list. In particular, we define an ***order-d B-skip list*** to be such a representation
of a skip list structure, where each block contains at least $⌈d/2⌉$ list nodes and at most *d* list nodes. Let us also choose *d* in this case to be the maximum number of list nodes from a level of a skip list that can fit into one block. Describe how we should modify the skip-list insertion and removal algorithms for a *B*-skip list so that the expected height of the structure is $O(logn/logB)$.

**C-15.16** Describe how to use a B-tree to implement the Partition ADT (Section 14.7.3) so that the union and find operations each use at most $O(logn/logB)$ disk transfers.

**C-15.17** Suppose we are given a sequence *S* of *n* elements with integer keys such that some elements in *S* are colored “blue” and some elements in *S* are colored “red.” In addition, say that a red element *e* ***pairs*** with a blue element *f* if they have the same key value. Describe an efficient external-memory algorithm for finding all the red-blue pairs in *S*. How many disk transfers does your algorithm perform?

**C-15.18** Consider the page caching problem where the memory cache can hold *m* pages, and we are given a sequence *P* of *n* requests taken from a pool of $m + 1$ possible pages. Describe the optimal strategy for the offline algorithm and show that it
causes at most $m + n/m$ page misses in total, starting from an empty cache.

**C-15.19** Describe an efficient external-memory algorithm that determines whether an array of *n* integers contains a value occurring more than *n/2* times.

**C-15.20** Consider the page caching strategy based on the ***least frequently used*** (LFU) rule, where the page in the cache that has been accessed the least often is the one that is evicted when a new page is requested. If there are ties, LFU evicts the least frequently used page that has been in the cache the longest. Show that there is a sequence P of n requests that causes LFU to miss $Ω(n)$ times for a cache of m pages, whereas the optimal algorithm will miss only $O(m)$ times.

**C-15.21** Suppose that instead of having the node-search function $f (d) = 1$ in an order-*d* B-tree *T* , we have $f (d) = logd$. What does the asymptotic running time of performing a search in *T* now become?  

### Projects

**P-15.22** Write a Java class that simulates the best-fit, worst-fit, first-fit, and next-fit algorithms for memory management. Determine experimentally which method is the best under various sequences of memory requests.  

**P-15.23** Write a Java class that implements all the methods of the sorted map ADT by means of an $(a,b)$ tree, where *a* and *b* are integer constants passed as parameters to a constructor.

**P-15.24** Implement the B-tree data structure, assuming a block size of 1024 and integer keys. Test the number of “disk transfers” needed to process a sequence of map operations.  